[Music]
hello and welcome to Shop Franklin
supporting small business where we raise
awareness of and build community around
our local independently owned businesses
every day my name is Sarah maardi and
today I have Betsy Barry of Franklin
Yoga and Wellness thanks for coming
you're welcome happy to be here I'm glad
so Betsy I wore these red pants because
someone once told me well a they're like
the one pair of pants I own but that red
is your root chakra Foundation Core
Balance strength so
grounding so good place to start I
thought that was a great place to start
so I'm wearing my root chakra pants for
you thank you so the blue is going to
open up the throat this will be a nice
conversation good see you guys learned
so much already see keep watching so
Betsy we go back a while um I knew you
before you in Franklin Yoga and Wellness
and I'm so fortunate to have because you
are such a beautiful soul and I am so
glad to have continued our friendship
and now you own Franklin Yoga and
Wellness which you owned for about two
years almost three almost three you can
tell how often I do
yoga um so tell me how from where you
are from where you are how did you come
to own a yoga
studio well this is apparently really
good story I was actually dragged to my
first yoga class kicking and streaming I
really didn't want to be there I thought
I've only got so much time to get to the
gym I want to get my workout get in get
out but a friend kept insisting that I
really should to try this yoga class
that we had at our gym and after the
first class I absolutely fell in love
with it now what kind of yoga class was
that it was a viasa flow whatever that
is so Vasa flow class Vasa flow class
which links the movements of what you're
doing to the breathing that you're doing
so it has a bit of a cardio Edge to it
really worked in perfect at a gym yoga
class okay but there was something about
the way that you held the poses the way
that your body felt afterwards that I
thought wow this is something really
different I love this and I just started
practicing more and exploring more and
decided very quickly that I wanted to
start teaching MH and had looked into
different teacher training programs
found that one that worked for my
schedule I was a mom of three young kids
at the time and completed that there was
a yoga studio that was opening up on the
other side of town around the same time
reached out to them and started teaching
there almost immediately and I've been
there ever since and now on the studio
now what is involved in becoming a yoga
Guru instructor and now you learn all of
the different poses because it can be
overwhelming um I've done yoga and I
walk in and I always feel I think this
is true for any gym class or any
exercise routine that you introduce
yourself to it's overwhelming to walk
into a space and feel like you're the
one that doesn't know what you're doing
um and yoga I found is a very welcoming
environment to introduce yourself that
in general um maybe because I've been to
your yoga classes where you're very in
tune with what I need and um most
recently I went to your yoga class it
was a while ago but at the end she came
over and put a blanket on me and an i
pillow on and that was my favorite part
because that is the whole purpose for
coming to a yoga class to have the full
complete relaxation at the end was so
nice and no matter how you approach your
yoga whether you come in through a
gentle or seated or standing or an
active or a cardio class the whole point
is to come to the place at the end where
you feel fully grounded in your body
fully centered in your mind and have
your mind spirit and body completely in
better connection that sounds lovely I
know right I should try that more often
you should so tell me so what's involved
with the training so you just went
through all the different aspects of
yoga that you can approach it as and it
really is it's a dynamic exercise it's
not just stretching it's not um you know
it's not I should just say it's not what
a lot of people think it is you say a
lot of people come into it with
preconceived notions of what yoga is but
it really there's a lot of different
ways to approach it you know there's
bickram yoga which I believe is a hot
yoga um there's Kundalini Yoga which is
an entirely different experience and
that's what I used to practice um so how
did you come to learn about these and
can you describe some of them for us
well I think the most important thing to
know is that everyone comes to to yoga
when they're ready and you have to be a
little bit of a seeker and explore to
find what's the right style of yoga for
you and your body and your lifestyle and
where you are emotionally and mentally
at this point in your life when we're
younger we're usually drawn towards a
more active style of yoga when we're
older we start out usually with a much
more gentle approach now that doesn't
mean that an older person can't handle a
more active class you just have to find
a place to begin mhm is saying that the
most difficult yoga posit that you'll
ever do is the first step onto your yoga
M and I do believe that's true I think
you have to get over your self
self-perceived
limitations and just give it a try and
if that's not the right class or the
right time or the right instructor or
the right Studio then you explore a
little bit deeper and find the thing
that resonates with you the most so
different styles of yoga usually have a
different approach and often with a
slightly different end result a
Kundalini Yoga practice works very
dynamically through breath and through
movement to move a lot of emotional
energy a viasa practice Works focusing
on controlling the breath and moving
through a dynamic series of poses to
have a very healing effect on the body
beum yoga which you mentioned is a
specific style of hot yoga there are
many which uses the same sequence of
poses twice through every yoga class
every class will go through the same
series of POS poses for some people that
works for other people it doesn't appeal
to them because the heat doesn't work
well for their body type or they need a
little bit more variety and change in
each yoga class that they're going to
experience and I do find personally from
my own Journey sometimes it just comes
to resonating with a teacher that speaks
the language that you need to
hear I agree I was speaking with someone
recently and I said that everyone goes
to everyone's attracted to what speak
speaks to them and someone is going to
be attracted to something very different
from someone else so there's all these
different classes and you're drawn to it
maybe someone does Vasa flow um and
there's five different classes offered
of Vasa Flow Yoga but there's a teacher
that they're going to connect with or
there's someone that they very clearly
don't connect with and that's not the
class for them because they're not going
to reach that relaxation point that they
need to so not only the physical
experience in yoga but also that
emotional connection or that um feeling
that you get from it absolutely I think
that's really important absolutely well
you even know that as a mother you may
be trying to get one of your children to
understand something whether it's a rule
of the house or how they're going to tie
their shoes and you can tell that child
ad nauseum and he doesn't hear you and
then a babysitter a grandparent might
say what you're saying in a slightly
different way and the kid has an aha
moment and can tie the shoes for the
rest of their lives yeah that happens to
me all the time I had a feeling just
maybe right um but I think it's that way
with yoga as well sometimes you just
have another individual that is
resonating with your spirit so clearly
that the way that they speak connects
with you in a way that it's a pleasant
enjoyable enlightening experience that
you then want to get a little more
Curious and go deeper as opposed to
begrudged packing your mat in your car
and showing up for yet another workout
so how amazing that that first class
that you took something was aligned in
that class that it spoke to you
absolutely the location the room the
instructor the class and it's instructor
who now works at the studio with me now
oh really oh wow so how did you come I
ask how did you come to own Franklin
Yoga and Wellness well I've been
teaching there for many years and one of
the things that the two owners at the
time were Kundalini practitioners which
again is a very different style of yoga
from what I teach and that was my
experience in Franklin Yoga and Wellness
at the time I was looking for something
that would help me Explore More
spirituality and openness of heart um
and energy movement and so I did the
Kundalini practice which is a very
Dynamic interesting practice and it can
be very exertive um and tiring often I
had to stop halfway through and that was
okay it was a safe place um but that was
my introduction to Frank Yoga and
Wellness and I had um right gone there
before so they were primarily Kundalini
or um gurma gatar and K the galini class
that I attended but what I immediately
loved about the studio that they had
opened and had opened and what was
different about that studio was that
immediately they understood the
importance of hosting a multi-discipline
studio meaning there are different
styles of yoga that believe they are the
only style of yoga that you should be
practicing and there's many MH uh kind
of like religion people get set in the
way that they interpret a certain thing
and feel it's the one true way what I
did appreciate with the cultas was that
they could see that most people have to
come when they're ready and to hear a
message that they're willing to hear so
different people will come to different
styles of yoga for very different
reasons so they invited myself and a few
other teachers that teach a hatas style
of yoga so it's a little bit more
movement based we also do get into
breath work and we do get into some of
the more Dynamic and esoteric pieces of
yoga but in our own way um but what they
did was they supported each of our
growth and from that the studio I
believe began to thrive because we were
serving many different styles of people
people for instance if you hear hot yoga
class Hot Yoga Studio often it's the
same type of people that are drawn to
that studio which is fine all the power
to that but what I do appreciate about
the studio that I was working at the
time and which I now own and I've worked
very hard to try to maintain that is
that I feel that the doors are open to
anyone that walks in the door so
regardless of who walks in the door and
at what time of day there should be a
teacher and a class that will resonate
with them and I feel that we have a
well-trained staff that will make anyone
walk in the door and feel welcome
whether it's the correct class for them
that evening or not they will guide them
to the place that may likely make them
feel more comfortable being on this path
to
yoga um for my own personal Journey what
resonated with me was a Vasa style of
yoga because it gave me an awful lot of
flexibility and creativity in the way
that I sequence poses so that I have a
lot of control over how I can
dynamically come in and help someone
heal I can come in from many different
angles or whether it's through the poses
through the breath work through the
sequencing through whatever the focus is
for the day the week the month in order
to help people heal Hearts help people
get through a difficult week where we've
got a political situation in the
background that's unpleasant where we
have news that is hitting many people
and drawing them down energetically MH
so maybe the focus this week isn't going
to be to come into a stronger back bend
we're not working with the physical
poses but we're using these physical
poses in a way that we're helping people
feel more balanced so that they're
sleeping better at night so they're able
to function in their everyday life so
they're not walking through Franklin for
instance feeling down and depressed
because the outside world is really
challenging so pun intended it offers a
lot of flexibility
nice she's a natural yog really
funny um yeah and that's you know what d
draws me to um the yoga experience with
Franklin Yoga and Wellness specifically
is that energy for those of us who
embrace the idea of energy and spirit
and healing and Karma um you feel it
when you walk in it is a safe comforting
welcoming space where it's not just
about that physical exercise it's not
okay I have to get to yoga today it's I
want to go there and no matter where you
are physically mentally emotionally you
are going to embrace them something that
speaks to that part of you and that was
my experience there and I think that's
what differentiates you and the studio
from just a yoga class or going to a
general fitness facility that offers
yoga it's more of a community and I
think anyone in the shop Franklin
Community will know that something
that's very core to my being is
collaboration Community bringing people
together in a positive and supportive
environment right and I think yoga and
Franklin Yoga and Wellness really
support that endeavor so with that with
the idea of community Franklin Yoga and
Wellness works for the community I know
that you've done a yoga and wine pairing
now I believe it was actually chakra and
wine pairing I was not able to attend
you've done at least two of these
correct we've done two so far I had been
approached by Mark Lindsay of Franklin
liquor and what he had suggested that we
do is some type of a yoga and wine class
and my resistance to that was I thought
well great it's just an excuse for a
bunch of people to drink wine after a
yoga class and I'm certainly not against
a decent glass of cernet and the problem
with that
is but the problem was that it wasn't in
align with what I want to do with the
studio which is to help educate and
bring people back into balance but I
thought any chance that I have to
educate people on a deeper level for
instance you mentioned the chakras the
chakras We Believe from an energy
standpoint
are large areas of um almost like a a
ball or a sphere of energy that aligns
the spine each of them have a particular
purpose and when the energy center is
shut down when you're depressed when
you're lonely when you're sad when
you're grieving for instance your heart
chakra energy might shut down and not
that you're you're going to completely
collapse but you might not be able to be
as open and welcoming in your own home
in your own kitchen as you normally
would be so through poses through
breathing through meditation through
awareness we have different ways to
start to bring these energies back into
balance it's almost like a dimness bingo
so if you're looking at the chakras and
going through your chakras and there's
one that Associates with different part
of your being so your heart chakra
there'll be a dimness there right and
there are Yoga practices and breathing
exercises and mental exercises
mindfulness deliberate actions that can
brighten that dimness absolutely that
said there's also ways where these
chakra energies can become out of
balance and overactive for instance
someone with with an overacted third
chakra so your third chakra is all about
your will and your self-esteem and your
power center and how you present
dynamically into the world so there
might be one or two political candidates
right now that you might just saying
might consider might have an overactive
third chakra and that's where balancing
creating that chakra balance absolutely
so brightening what needs brightening
and moderating moderating bring in
absolutely a little overexpressed
absolutely and when these Energies are
in Balance we feel healthy we feel
secure we feel loved we feel Dynamic we
feel like we can make a difference not
only in our own lives but in our
families and in our community as well so
when we had been talking about this yoga
and wine pairing one thing that I did
say to Mark was well let's do this in an
intelligent way so we'll talk about a
dynamic yoga practice that is meant to
open up and balance these energy centers
and then we'll explore a wine tasting
which then goes in a little deeper and
we talk about the qualities of each so
for instance one of the things that he
was passionate about doing was bringing
a fortified wine in with the throat
chakra fortified wines if you've ever
enjoyed them madas and ports and um T
ports we have a heating effect but
there's a way that there's a freedom you
can feel it physically in the body even
though we're talking about energy and if
you've ever had dinner with anyone had G
out for a nice steak dinner and then
afterwards you're sharing a bottle of
por
the words flow pretty easily and that is
your throat chakra absolutely absolutely
so what Mark did was and he was a very
good quick study and understanding these
energy senters of which he hadn't heard
of six months ago okay but trying to
find very dynamically how do you take
these wines and explore what the
expression of the chakra energies were
okay so for instance going back to our
our solar plexus which is about fire and
heat and metabolism and change in in
your body on a physical level when these
energies are imbalance your digestive
system works really well you take food
that you digest and you metabolize it
pretty easily and you're a healthy
strong person so what he did was he
chose a wine that was grown The Grapes
themselves were grown in volcanic
ash wow and then what he did was he
talked about the family's passion that
owns the vineyard and what they put into
understanding and growing and improving
these wines over time mhm so it was a
beautiful beautiful pairing which opened
up an awful lot of dynamic discussion as
to how do we take these esoteric pieces
of yoga but then explore them on a very
visceral physical level so it's a
fantastic fantastic experience that's a
great example of how you
can create collaboration in
unconventional ways which I love I love
that idea of finding someone who you
can't imagine having that common ground
with or that pairing with and pulling it
together and making something so so
creative that benefits all involved
right so that does sound very
interesting some of the other things
that we have done at the studio are look
into series that fulfill a community
need for instance we run a yoga with
cancer so it was people for um that were
undergoing cancer treatment that needed
physical support emotional support and
um just a little bit of community
knowing that you're not alone I've
unfortunately been in a situation with a
family M that was very close to me who
went through a terrible experience with
cancer treatment and it affects the
entire family it's not just about the
patient so we've tried to do things like
that we've reached out to um some of the
local people that are working with
addressing the opio um problems that we
have right here what we' love to be
considered as a bigger resource for the
community yeah and how do we reach out
to the right Partners so that we're
offering services that are healing that
are nurturing
that are supportive and Foster a sense
that we're all in this together because
ultimately we are yeah and I think that
as Society moves forward that's where
sha Franklin comes from is trying to
create that sense of community
responsibility to one another because
the more and more you understand it and
now scientific research is backing it
when you have that sense of community
Things Fall Away the anxiety the
depression the stress we are all living
up here above what is um and as we come
back to that place of Center that
Foundation that root chakra um we can
have that sense of belonging that safety
and I love that you're working with the
uh the safe Coalition on the opioid
issue in Franklin which is Nationwide
but Franklin really has been affected
and it's something that I personally
it's the one exception that I make on
shot Franklin that if they're doing
something I'm telling you about it um
because it may not be about independent
businesses but it's about our community
and that's what we need to support you
also do yoga reaches out and this is not
just Franklin Yoga and Wellness it is
lots of yoga at the same time it was
started by Sarah Gardner who was a local
fitness instructor and yoga instructor
in Wayland Massachusetts um she had had
one of her children had spent um way too
much time in the neonatal unit at
Children's hospital and she thought I
want to find a way to give back so it's
started out as a very small Grassroots
organization and has grown to a much
bigger event in six years I believe that
this year we had on the big day we raise
money in order to participate but on the
big day which was held all day at um
Gillette Stadium inside the Fieldhouse
were 800 yogis uh practicing yoga um
each had raised at a minimum of
$250 so we've raised a lot of money in a
very short amount of time and these
monies go back to helping people whose
children are undergrown cancer treatment
or cardiac treatment or there's always
there's always a large
Outreach um recipient and there's always
a smaller one so we've also supported
some of the smaller local initiatives
such as Ben speaks which is Judy's
organization which is helping reaching
out to atrisk youth Judy had lost her
son Ben many years ago to Suicide okay
so educating people and letting people
know that there are resour is available
to them uh this year which was exciting
was the money a lot of the money from
yoga reaches out is actually going to
support the hail Center which is a
center that is run at Children's
Hospital and is specifically for
families of children who are undergoing
cancer treatment so it is supporting the
parents who are there trying to hold
their stuff together while they are
Wheeling a child in for treatment so
there are meditation Services there is
taiichi there are yoga classes then
they're really hoping to broaden what
they do do having an understanding that
not only when someone is suffering and
going through a major life change or an
illness everyone in their life is
affected by it absolutely everyone in
their life is hurting by it and every
person in that family needs to heal in
their own unique way and a lot of times
that becomes secondary you know when you
talk about an an addiction situation a
lot of energy is spent on treating the
addict or the patient um you I can look
back when my dad was terminally ill with
cancer we were all focused on him and
you know I remember my mom fell to the
Wayside and coming back and realizing
her experience through all of this and
for me it's in hindsight but it really
changed my look and had a profound
effect on me and my desire to again
create that sense of community belonging
support and knowing that you have
everything you need to be okay abut and
that it's out there so we are going
going to talk a little bit about yoga
poses so first off behind me on this
table we have some props for yoga that
literally prop you up and this is what I
use when I do yoga so in order to take
away some of that uh intimidation that
someone might feel walking into a new
space let's talk about how if someone
wants to Explore Yoga let's kind of
break it down a little bit and and say
all right when you're walking in step
one you have everything you need there
is nothing you need to know walking in
the door mhm carry that through you
anywhere in life you are enough and you
walk in and someone will be there to
help you you've got it Namaste class
over there you go see um and so but some
of the tools that people use in yoga so
when you go to a yoga class um no matter
where you go be at Franklin Yoga and
Wellness or another Studio very often
the first question is do I bring them
out so do I bring them out most yoga
studios do have them either available
for rent or you can borrow them at our
studio you can borrow them just come on
in okay so this with the yoga M what I
will say what I will say about a yoga
mat is very quickly your yoga mat
becomes a safe space for you so if you
have gone to maybe three yoga classes
and you think this is a thing that I
like I suggest that you go online you go
to Target I wouldn't buy the $10 a
cheapest mat that because you'll slide
around a little bit but a $20 yoga mat
is probably enough but each time that
you roll out the mat there is an
experience of opening up a space that's
safe for you to explore and sometimes
what you'll need out of your yoga
practice will be to sit still and maybe
just sit and think or breathe or
sometimes cry and that's not a bad thing
because that space becomes very sacred
to you and you open up and you let go
and you release and you find a way to
build back up to a deeper stronger truer
sense of where you should have been all
along and that's a great vision of
creating space very often we don't
create space for ourselves in life at
all right and so if a yoga mat is that
you can have this much space that could
be yours you can carve that out in the
world Absolut especially as parents or
employees or someone who's constantly
doing that's what yoga's about it's
creating that space so you can borrow
one at Studios or rent one at most
Studios they are cleaned in between each
use um or you can get an inexpensive
yoga mat there are a lot of
non-independent owned businesses that
sell them at a very reasonable price or
I'm sure you can work with the studio
arrange to get one um but it's nice I
like the idea it's almost like creating
your own absolutely home in a space to
come home to come home so that is the
mat now these come in handy also um
we'll go through some simple yoga moves
I'm going to make you show me a move um
or we can do it right now you want to do
it right now well here's a simple move
often what am I going to do with this
well we'll use um sometimes we'll use um
a chair in yoga and usually what we do
is we start a yoga class by sitting down
and taking a few moments just ground
because you want to take again an
experience of walking outside of your
regular day and coming within some
people aren't comfortable sitting on the
floor so you bring the floor up to you
so that you're aligned in the spine
you're sitting upright shoulders are
back and now you've got some room to
breathe because most of us
habitually Lean Forward hold our phone
type talk do whatever it is have an ear
cocked as we're holding the phone doing
something so this is not proper spinal
alignment and if we're talking about the
energy centers aligning the spine
they're a little little bit wonky when
you're off center so very simple thing
that we do do with the blocks is
literally just put our feet on them for
a little stronger Foundation that is a
really good point there's actually
studies recently that um in segments of
the population there's actually a
deviation in the spine that is moving
the head forward in alignment because of
all of our Electronics use it's called
texting neck what's that texting neck
texting neck there you go it's chronic
in every teenager in Franklin um Bell
and red
head has a massive amount of weight and
you're actually physically created to
hold it at a certain angle you were
perfectly created yes to hold it with
the natural curves of the spine um and
we're seeing that issue with leaning
forward so I always tell my kids like
shoulders back chest out I'm trying to
focus on that but yeah absolutely
because you can come into a Y Yoga
practice well your head weighs something
like 20 or something yeah somewhere a
heavy amount but when you lean it
forward and you throw off your neck your
changing and increasing the pressure at
a much greater rate so now you've got a
70 lb in effect head hanging out over
your neck it's like walking around in
4in heels all day but for your head
exactly not very comfortable and why
would we do that willingly exactly so
the blocks are exactly that um they
actually help you with also your
flexibility so if you're doing a a pose
um one pose that I've done in the studio
that the blocks come in handy for me is
I believe it's a warrior like a triangle
where you go down and I can't reach um
I'm long and lanky and not flexible and
so I'll put my hand on the Block and you
can you can see me here um you can
actually have the block this way or this
way right for stability and if you have
limited flexibility you can do it this
way so you have a longer reach or this
way and also in um is it child's pose
for your foreheads on the ground yes um
so you line on the ground and you can
put this under your forehead head so if
your head isn't going straight to the
bottom or if that's uncomfortable to
touch the mat you can put that under
your if you were lying on the floor with
your arms in front of you and your
bottom was back by your feet which are
now underneath your bottom and you're
trying to get your forehead down to the
ground but your hips are tight and
that's not happening there'd be a big
gap between your forehead and the floor
so what most people will do was this
which is exactly what you were just
saying putting that forward moving
weight so now all you're doing is
yanking on your cervical spine but if
you're placing the block underneath the
forehead and here's the floor you've
supported this so now the shoulders can
relax and the midb can relax and the
lower back can relax and the pose
actually has some comfort to it and I
think this is actually a really good
point to bring up when you're in a yoga
class talk to the instructor before if
you have any concerns because then
they'll look at you you know I have no
shame I'll walk in and say I have no
idea what I'm doing um and so that way
if I am struggling in a Poe
if there's 15 people in the room most
yoga instructors are really good at
noticing but if they already know that
you might need a little introduction
into a pose or that you have shoulder
issues that's a huge thing shoulder
issues um that you can't do certain Mo
movements they'll come over and bring
you a block or show you the correct way
to use a block right in the middle of
the class um to make sure that you're
doing it properly so walk in be okay
knowing that not everyone has all the
information and ask for help all of us
have to ask for help in many different
areas of our life yoga should be a safe
one to do I think it's also important
that people do even if you're pulling
this the instructor aside outside of the
studio just to let them know I do have a
chronic issue often times people don't
want to share their stuff in front of a
room full of strangers and that's
certainly respectable but especially if
you are expecting a baby please pull
that instructor aside in general a yoga
practice is not going to harm a fetus
however there are certain things that we
do do in general that we wouldn't do if
someone was expecting a baby for
instance when you're carrying a child
you are a continual Lifeline to this
baby you breathe the baby breathes your
blood flows the baby's blood flows if
you're holding your breath you have a
growing fetus who now all of a sudden
has lost the capability to breathe so
that's important not to hold the breath
but there very simple subtle things that
any good qualified instructor should be
able to guide you through safely through
the practice good to know also if you
are coming off of surgery I love when
you sit at the beginning of class and
ask people if they have any type of
injury and they say oh no no one raises
their hands are you sure I'm pretty sure
our 20 people somebody has something
going on no nothing but at the end of
class they'll say oh I really like that
but this was a little tight CU I had a
hip replacement three weeks ago well
first of all three weeks ago maybe you
shouldn't be in class just yet but the
instructor should be able to give you
some sort of modification whether it's
using a prop or whether it's just
sometimes holding back from the pose and
not going quite as deep and that's okay
mhm one thing I think that you should
never do in yoga is look at the person
next to you oh um you can look at them
and say hi and introduce yourself great
that Community but U very often I have
the flexibility of a 2x4 and I sat next
to a woman who I did not know was in
training to be a yoga instructor and she
was sitting there doing bends her legs
she was like touching either wall and
here I am I can't touch my shins and it
really gives you a feeling of oh but you
know where am I um and just like that I
didn't know she was training to be a
yoga instructor so clearly she has her
own experience that she's having and I
need to stay in my experience and seek
out help to make sure I'm doing it
properly but do it to the end that I am
able and yoga is a great practice to do
that in and do it to the end that you
are able so if someone's introducing
themselves to yoga is there a intro yoga
class um so that they're more
comfortable coming into the moves you
know downward dog a lot of people know
downward dog and there's a right way of
doing it that you learn in the class but
what might be the best class A gentle
yoga a yoga for
beginners um is that I suggest to newer
students that you should scan if you're
attending a yoga studio you should go on
to their on go onto their website look
at the schedule that's coming up for the
week and look for anything that uses
these words gentle beginner Basics or
mindful because those will be a slower
paced class where you will not be
rapidly driving yourself through poses
and looking around the room cranking
your neck to try to figure out what's
happening around you a gentle class
should just move at a slower Pace it
will be the same poses that you're doing
in a more Dynamic yoga class but you'll
be taking more time to set them up a
little more safely you'll be taking more
time to get the understanding and the
basics of how to breathe properly we do
use different breathing techniques and
different styles and different practices
of yoga um and it will give you a chance
to become familiar with the language for
instance Sarah if you and I decided that
we were going to sign up for a ballet
class this afternoon M yeah she smiles
at just the thought of it but if we had
gone into a point class we wouldn't know
the language that they were speak
speaking we wouldn't know the moves that
they were que queuing and we certainly
wouldn't be able to follow the
combination besides the fact of the
thought of us in point shoes I can
totally do
it well you're one up on me sister I am
one your point I above you there you go
that's so much but if the two of us had
signed up for a basic ballet class we'
become familiar with the structure of
the class we would become familiar with
the way and the why we warm up the way
that we do and then we'd be able to
build from that so agend yoga class I
feel is a wonderful way to start to
introduce someone to the practice you
will have people that come in that have
been moving their bodies pretty
confidently through whatever they do
CrossFit or Zumba class or whatever who
come in and go I don't like the pace of
this I'd like to know a little more
quickly and I will move forward pretty
rapidly go for it I'm not going to hold
you back but I think a gentle or a
beginner class gives you a little bit of
comfort so then you go okay here's where
I'm at sometimes also so I will find
that people expect that they need a more
Dynamic experience they come into yoga
class sit down take a few moments and
then they go wow my lower back is much
more problematic than I'd normally like
to accept mhm so sitting quietly and
trying to learn how to breathe deeper
into the body trying to move more
intelligently through the body working
with functional movements so basically
that's the way the body is meant to move
for instance if you're taking a seated
forward fold the body normally hinges so
that the Torso would roll forward but if
you have an unhappy achy back and you
tend to come into a forward fold like
this something gets lost in the process
so a gentle class will bring you back to
the basics give you an awful lot of
knowledge about yourself and then help
you decide where you're going to go from
there well why don't we do something to
transition us into yoga World okay um
you mention me we can do some breathing
exercises and this is something that I
think is is really important because if
you speak to any one when it comes to
energy and yoga it comes down to the
breath um the breath is your life force
you need to breathe how you breathe
mindful breathing um all of those ways
that you're feeding your soul and your
body so why don't we do some breathing
exercises so when you go to your first
beginner's yoga and gentle yoga you've
got the breathing down you're all ready
to go not that you needed it all right
well one thing that I remind students of
is the breath is the way to help you
quiet down the mind so that you have a
venue to come back into your body
because most of us move through our
lives fairly mindlessly rushing from one
thing to the next you're a busy mom I
and we know each other so I know how
busy your day goes and you do move from
one thing to the next and too many
people I feel eat standing up MH why not
sit down and take the time to enjoy the
meal that you've taken the time to
prepare so that you're tasting it you're
smelling it it's nourishing you and
you're having experience with your
family with my chicken nuggets exactly
you're gonna bite those chicken nuggets
slowly mindfully chicken invite and
enjoy every single experience of it um
but what the breath does I believe is it
anchors us to slow us down enough that
then we become much more aware of how
we're feeling so that we can listen to
our belly and say am I really hungry or
do I see chocolate and I know where my
stash is and I'm just going to go for
that because that's a quicker fix but I
think the breathing gets you to to slow
down and go you know what I think can
hold off on that just a little bit
longer and maybe what I really need is
something more nutritious for the moment
and this is something that you can do
anywhere which I think is important so
you know moms of young children who
relax while their kids napping in the
backseat of the car and they don't take
them out of the car because they finally
fell asleep instead of browsing your
phone actually sit and do a breathing
exercise or on the commuter rail going
into the city um I'm sure everyone's on
their computer on their phone not many
people read the paper anymore um
actually sit and be mindful even if
you're not breathing sit with good
posture look out the window and actually
observe and be aware of what you're
driving through um I do this exercise on
the commuter rail through Franklin and
I've lived in here lived in Franklin for
11 years and what you see is really
really interesting you go wow I didn't
know that was there um as opposed to
what you normally Miss yes right yes
there's so much that we miss MH in the
task of going mhm and we're never being
so let this breath bring you back into
being and when you're on your phone
you're constantly connected you are
being pulled outside of yourself always
when you're sitting quietly and closing
your eyes you're coming within and
listening and that's a big piece of what
healing is is understanding what you
really need MH so the easiest way to
breathe to Center is to close your eyes
okay can't see what everyone else is
seeing so all right my eyes are closed I
can see what she's saying though all
right so I usually work with people and
getting them to Center for a few moments
so each time that you come into your
yoga class we take a moment just simply
to
arrive and metaphorically what you're
doing is coming from your outside world
into this inside World maybe the mat is
the metaphor where you sit you give
yourself a few moments just to sit and
get comfortable and centered and
grounded and just
breathe
and normally what you'll find is if
you've got 10 20 people sitting on yoga
mats getting excited the class is going
to start and they've gotten to know each
other over the years there's a lot of
chatting there's a lot of interaction
people are asking each other how their
lives are going but when they quietly
sit and breathe the energy of the room
just simply settles down and there's a
peacefulness that very quickly comes
over right you come within you bring it
down
so whatever else is going on the laundry
that's still sitting on the counter goes
away even if it's for 75 minutes for 75
minutes it's not pulling at you okay so
go ahead and close your eyes okay I
going have you take a deep full breath
completely fill up your lungs fill up
your chest fill up your ribs and open
your mouth and
exhale and here we go a very easy breath
we'll breathe in for the count of Four 3
2 1 and you hold it now and inside the
body for an eight count so we're at
about 5 4 3 2 and now you begin a slow
exhale for the count of 8 7 6 5 4 3 2
one we breathe in for
four and then you hold and the holding's
important because it starts to stir up
whatever might be stagnant inside of the
body and you'll start to let let it go
at 2 1 all the way through an open mouth
for 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 one and now it feels
good to breathe in deeply for four
because we've cleaned out whatever was
stagnant and then we hold it and we
again let the energy just start to build
up a little bit what stagnant starts to
move around and shift and then when
we're almost there as we open the mouth
and exhale deeply we start to get
whatever's stagnant at the bottom of the
lenss and push it all the way out so
when you finish that one at eight you go
ahead and breathe in one more time for
four and then you'll hold it one more
time for seven getting this idea of
cleaning
house and then open the mouth slow and
deep 48 getting to the very bottom of
the
breath eventually sealing the lips
opening the eyes just going back to your
normal breathing and something as simple
as that four rounds twice a day starts
to bring in a much quieter experience
now I would take that breathing exercise
the numbers were
478 and start to build on it so that
maybe you build up to eight times a day
two times two times a day eight rounds
each and the change that can happen
within a month's time in your life is
incredible can you tell that I'm all
like zoned out right now that was lovely
there you go so that will be the
challenge for those watching today and
is in a month so
478 mhm everyone watching turn off your
television your DVR your phone set it
aside and twice a day 478 four Cycles
just sit and breathe and I think that
that really will make a profound
difference it may sound
crazy but it's kind of hard to stop and
look inside it is so for so you can
schedule it on your phone yes you can
use your phone to schedu you can do it
first thing in the morning as you sit up
but you're not ready to get out of bed I
suggest that you do that before you've
greet your family for the day because
something always happens some child
always spills something and it kind of
messes up the whole round yeah and or
can't find their shoe that's on the
floor in front of them or on their foot
yep sometimes to do it the best time to
do is right before you go to bed or as a
busy mom um when everyone's left the
table and you're trying to get the
energy to clean up the kitchen which
most of us usually start that task with
a you might as well do a breathing
exercise anyways 478 proper breathing
exercise to reenter and do it mindfully
absolutely but simple things can happen
when you just simply focus on the breath
one thing that I would suggest is that
most people when they're sitting in
traffic is that you just slow down and
breathe you huffing and puffing and
swearing ing is not going to get the
traffic light to change or the person in
front of you who's broken down to move
but you bringing yourself to a calmer
place will help you by the time you got
to get out and go knock on that door and
say hey buddy what's going on you're
calm you're centered you're focused and
you could be of Greater service by being
able to help that person rather than
tearing the head off I agree bety thank
you so much for green to come on Shop
Franklin supporting small business with
me I'm so glad that you were here I feel
more Zen
and as you close every yoga class every
yoga class we traditionally finish by
simple greeting where we place our hands
together with the thumbs at your heart
center close your eyes take a deep
breath in and
out the light and the brightness which
resides Within Me honors and celebrates
the light and the brightness which
resides within you Namaste
namaste
[Music]
this program was made possible by your
Franklin friends and neighbors good
folks just like you thanks for
supporting Franklin TV thanks for
watching